#PHP Basics
1. Syntax
2. Operators
3. Variables
4. Control Structures
5. Language Constructs and Functions
6. Namespaces 
7. Extensions
8. Config
9. Performance/bytecode caching


#Note
1. Php variable case sensetive. $xx and $Xx not same.
2. PHP method or function name case insensitive. xx() and Xx() same.

#Tags 
In PHP 5, there are up to five different pairs of opening and closing tags available in PHP, depending on how PHP is configured. Two of these, &lt;?php ?&gt; and &lt;script language=&quot;php&quot;&gt; &lt;/script&gt;, are always available. There is also the short echo tag &lt;?= ?&gt;, which is always available in PHP 5.4.0 and later. The other two are short tags and ASP style tags. As such, while some people find short tags and ASP style tags convenient, they are less portable, and generally not recommended. PHP 7 removes support for ASP tags and &lt;script language=&quot;php&quot;&gt; tags. As such, we recommend only using &lt;?php ?&gt; and &lt;?= ?&gt; when writing PHP code to maximise compatibility.

#Scaller Data Type

#### functions
```sh
bool settype ( mixed &$var , string $type )
string strval(mixed $var)
int intval(mixed $var)
array array_diff ( array $array1 , array $array2 [, array $... ] );
array array_values ( array $array )
int count ( mixed $array_or_countable [, int $mode = COUNT_NORMAL ] )

```
**Possibles values of type are: "boolean" (or, since PHP 4.2.0, "bool"), "integer" (or, since PHP 4.2.0, "int"),"float" (only possible since PHP 4.2.0, for older versions use the deprecated variant "double"),"string","array","object","null" **


###Boolean
When converting to boolean, the following values are considered FALSE:
* the boolean FALSE itself
* the integer 0 (zero)
* the float 0.0 (zero)
* the empty string, and the string "0"
* an array with zero elements
* an object with zero member variables (PHP 4 only)
* the special type NULL (including unset variables)
* SimpleXML objects created from empty tags

**Every other value is considered TRUE (including any resource). To cast into boolean use (bool)**

###Integer
* Binaray Integer Literalas Start With 0b or 0B .. Example 0b111110101 or 0B1010101010
* Octal Integer Literals start with 0; if 8,9 found the cut out form here left or right.
* Hexa decimal integer start with 0x or 0X
* Php integer is platform dependend so its size dependen to platform 32 or 64 bit. if PHP encounters a number beyond the bounds of the integer type, it will be interpreted as a float instead
* PHP dose not support unsined integer.
* Use either the (int) or (integer) casts.  A value can also be converted to integer with the intval() function.

###String
* A boolean TRUE value is converted to the string "1". Boolean FALSE is converted to "" (the empty string).
* An integer or float is converted to a string representing the number textually (including the exponent part for floats). Floating point numbers can be converted using exponential notation (4.1E+6).
* Arrays are always converted to the string "Array"
* A value can be converted to a string using the (string) cast or the strval() function.
* Characters within strings may be accessed and modified by specifying the zero-based offset of the desired character after the string using square array brackets, as in $str[42] or $str{42} if undefined charecter want to access then empty string found and NOTICE thrown.

###Array
The key can either be an integer or a string. The value can be of any type.

**Additionally the following key casts will occur:**

* Strings containing valid integers will be cast to the integer type. E.g. the key "8" will actually be stored under 8. On the other hand "08" will not be cast, as it isn't a valid decimal integer.
* Floats are also cast to integers, which means that the fractional part will be truncated. E.g. the key 8.7 will actually be stored under 8.
* Bools are cast to integers, too, i.e. the key true will actually be stored under 1 and the key false under 0.
* Null will be cast to the empty string, i.e. the key null will actually be stored under "".
* Arrays and objects can not be used as keys. Doing so will result in a warning: Illegal offset type.
* Negative index can be used. $array = array( -100  => 100);
* if no key is specified, the maximum of the existing integer indices is taken, and the new key will be that maximum value plus 1 (but at least 0)